# Event Loop

## Multi-processing, multi-threading, async-await

[Multi-processing vs multi-threading vs async-await vs Goroutine](https://iorilan.medium.com/multi-processing-vs-multi-threading-vs-async-await-vs-goroutine-983716514e03)

***Some common misunderstandings***

- For CPU-bound tasks, always use multiprocessing, it’s 100% faster than multi-threading.
- Multi-threading is similar to asyncio, asyncio will also start a thread, the same as threading.
- Multi-threading is only good for I/O tasks because multiple CPUs can't execute multi-threads simultaneously if they are in the same process.
- Golang is fast, it is made for concurrency. It’s always 100% faster than other languages when doing parallelism.

### So what’s with the python GIL

[Multiprocessing VS Threading VS AsyncIO in Python](https://leimao.github.io/blog/Python-Concurrency-High-Level/)

A global interpreter lock is a mechanism used in interpreters to synchronize the execution of threads so that only one native thread can execute at a time, even if we run the program on a multi-core processor. 

Because the Python interpreter uses GIL, a single-process Python program could only use one native thread during execution. That means a single-process Python program could not utilize CPU more than 100% regardless of whether it is the single-process single thread or single-process multithreaded. 

For single-process, multi-threaded C/C++ programs could utilize CPU cores and many native threads, and the CPU utilization could be greater than 100%.

Therefore, for a CPU-bound task in Python, we would have to write a multi-process Python program to maximize its performance.

Because a single-process Python could only use one CPU native thread. No matter how many threads were used in a single-process Python program, a single-process multi-thread Python program could only achieve at most 100% CPU utilization.

Therefore, for a CPU-bound task in Python, a single-process multi-thread Python program would not improve the performance. However, this does not mean multi-thread is useless in Python. For an I/O-bound task in Python, multi-thread could be used to improve the program performance

---

Threads from the same process can be scheduled to run on different cores within a multi-core processor (when threads execute on cores at the same time = parallelism). The OS is responsible for scheduling threads on the available CPU cores. When a thread is scheduled to run on a different core, the operating system performs a context switch.