# ACID

## ACID (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation and Durability)

## What is a Database transaction?

- Collection of queries
- treated as one unit of work
- eg: account deposit (select, update, update)
    - select the money from the first account
    - update to deduct the money
    - update to increase the money in second account

## Transaction Lifespace

- Starts with BEGIN
- Ends with COMMIT
    - persists in the changes to the disk.
- ROLLBACK can be used to well, rollback. (undo)

## Nature of Transactions

- Usually, transactions are used to change and modify data
- It is perfectly normal to have a read-only transaction
- eg: you want to generate a report and you want to get a consistent snapshot based on the time of transaction.
    - You can write separate read queries instead of a transaction.
    - But that is not good, what if all these read queries need data at a time when the initial query was run?
    - Transactions use the time at which the initial query was executed.
    - If any other query modifies the data that we are querying inside this transaction. Those won't cause any problems, transactions are isolated.

---

# Atomicity

- All the queries in a transaction must succeed. Since a transaction is considered to be a single unit of work.
- If one query fails, all prior successful queries in the transaction should roll back.
- If the database went down prior to a commit of a transaction, all the successful queries in the transactions should roll back.
- **An atomic transaction is a transaction that will roll back all queries if one or more queries failed.**

[Isolation](ACID%20aabd352e2e354da1839b540dc978ae49/Isolation%20e46137f8713d46078c0a47425ee05da1.md)

[Consistency](ACID%20aabd352e2e354da1839b540dc978ae49/Consistency%207a2ec6b53bca48719751f912619fa7ac.md)

[Durability](ACID%20aabd352e2e354da1839b540dc978ae49/Durability%20de0ecafdd5264b0484095cd3270123ee.md)